---
Name: Validity Review 13  
Date: Wednesday, 10 September 2025  
Time: 16:00 CET  
Location: Online (videocall)  

---

## Present

| Christina Gianelloni <br/> [@musik-c][] | Federico Weill <br/> [@federicoweill][] | Sebastien Bode <br/> [@cleanerm5][] | Beatrice Anihiri <br/> [@opacular][] |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|

[@musik-c]: https://github.com/musik-c  
[@federicoweill]: https://github.com/federicoweill  
[@gonzalaga]: https://github.com/gonzalaga  
[@cleanerm5]: https://github.com/cleanerm5  
[@opacular]: https://github.com/opacular  
[@mmahut]: https://github.com/mmahut  

### Not Present (voting by proxy)
- Dan Gonzalez — [@gonzalaga][]  
- Marek Mahut — [@mmahut][]   

---

## Agenda
PRAGMA Board Meeting
Meeting Date: Reviewed possible conflicts for upcoming meetings.
Decision: Meeting day changed to *3rd Wednesdays for October & November, at the same time as previously.

### 1. Open Source Mentorship
- Amaru and Aiken are both on board for open coding sessions.  
- Sessions will be added to the end of their bi-weekly Maintainer Committee meetings (announcement pending).  
- Amaru’s first session scheduled for the 16th of September.  
- Looking for a GA volunteer to participate in the open coding sessions.  

### 2. Project Committee
- Marek is currently preparing the framework and will present when available.  

### 3. Templates
- Exploring additional templates (e.g., conflict resolution) to provide useful resources for projects.  

### 4. Statutes
- Maintainer Committees have not yet submitted their processes to the board. 
- This needs to be completed before onboarding new projects in 2026.  
- A template will be created to make processes clearer and provide a reference point for resolving conflicts or other issues.  

### 5. Trademarks
1. **Pragma Trademark Challenge**  
   - Challenge is ongoing. CF has offered to provide financial support for the opposition.  

2. **Aiken and Amaru**  
   - Discussion on whether to extend registrations to additional regions is ongoing.  
   - Awaiting guidance from the GA.  

- Current bottleneck: GA and Maintainer Committees need to provide clarity before moving forward.  
- Need to define how trademarks are handled under PRAGMA:  
  - Registration process.   
  - Procedures for exiting PRAGMA and returning trademarks.  

### 6. Probst Retainer Confirmation
- Escalated matter to CF legal for clarification.  

### 7. Cardano Summit Panel
- Discussed PRAGMA hosting a panel discussion between PRAGMA, Intersect, and Builder DAO. Panel will be streamed and recorded.  

### 8. Membership Fees 2025
- Clarification required on why membership fees for 2025 were not included.  
- Follow-up discussion to be scheduled.  
- Proposal: put forward a membership dues plan for 2026, referencing payments made in 2024.  
- Note: potential fundraising effort in 2025 if additional funding needs arise.  

---
The meeting ended at 17:00 UTC
