---
Name: Validity Review 7
Date: Monday, 14 April 2025
Time: 16:00 CET
Location: Online (videocall)

---

## Present

| Christina Gianelloni <br/> [@musik-c][] | Christian Grobmeier <br/> [@grobmeier][] | Daniel Gonzalez <br/> [@gonzalaga][] |  Federico Weill <br/> [@federicoweill][] | Damien Czapla <br/> [@Dam-CZ][] |
| ---                               | ---                                           | ---                            | ---  | ---

[@musik-c]: https://github.com/musik-c
[@grobmeier]: https://github.com/grobmeier
[@federicoweill]: https://github.com/federicoweill
[@gonzalaga]: https://github.com/gonzalaga
[@cleanerm5]: https://github.com/cleanerm5
[@Dam-CZ]: https://github.com/Dam-CZ


## Agenda

- PRAGMA General assembly discussion
- PDR: Maintainer committee
- PDR: Incident resolution

## Meeting notes

Review of current PRAGMA General Assembly agenda and discussion of topics to be prepared ahead of time for this meeting see [GA Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XR1vfFKMGxc4YXpXEeiVGnRF5ghbGvOFJRh0WEp2hjY/edit?tab=t.mh1r8uldqwkn) 
> We will be using the [quarterly report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NFI6gBXYMDPaHc6hrw6XmsKmYDZvn-YwRsxcAqUPcVs/edit?usp=sharing) provided by Christina
> The Github PDRs that are current in the PDRs repo to review the activities
> The finance/accounting recap of Sebastian to recap the budget used during 2024 and forecast for 2025 what's expected

Review of the comments and modifications required of [PDR8-Maintainer-Committee](https://github.com/pragma-org/PDRs/tree/main/PDR-0008-Maintainer-Committee) regarding whether it should be a Guideline or a Policy.  
The discussion ended up accepting the PDR in its current state as a Guideline and have the General Assembly review PRAGMA position on that matter in their Quarterly meeting.

Review of the comments and moficiations required of [PDR10-Incident-Resolution](https://github.com/pragma-org/PDRs/tree/main/PDR-0010-Incident-Resolution). 
> Discussions on the confidentiality aspect of the process and the notions behind the conflict of interest during the whole procedure
> One solution that was found during the meeting is to clarify the role of the Independent board member as a first point of contact for conflict resolution
> This means that the statutes of PRAGMA might need to be updated to clarify that the Independent Board member must not have any affiliations with companies of PRAGMA or projects ongoing
> Also, one topic that the board can follow up on is having the Independent board member sign a "Conflict of interest affirmation" annually specifying the associations and the relationships that exist

## Follow up notes 

The meeting ended at 16:59 CET
