---
Name: Validity Review 11
Date: Monday, 11 August 2025
Time: 16:00 CET
Location: Online (videocall) 

---

## Present

---
| Christina Gianelloni <br/> [@musik-c][] | Dan Gonzales <br/>[@gonzalaga][] |  Federico Weill <br/> [@federicoweill][] | Sebastien Bode  <br/> [@cleanerm5][] | Beatice Anihiri <br/> [@opacular][] |
| ---                               | ---                                          | ---  | --- | --- 

[@musik-c]: https://github.com/musik-c
[@grobmeier]: https://github.com/grobmeier
[@federicoweill]: https://github.com/federicoweill
[@gonzalaga]: https://github.com/gonzalaga
[@cleanerm5]: https://github.com/cleanerm5
[@mmahut]: https://github.com/mmahut
[@opacular]: https://github.com/opacular


Not present, but voting by proxy:  
> Marek Mahut [@mmahut][]

## Agenda

- PRAGMA Board Meeting Date: Conflict review 
- PRAGMA Probs Partner: clean up recommendation (update from CF)
- PRAGMA PRINS Trademark: watching services recommendation (decision pending)
- PRAGMA Administrative Board: Quarterly report 
- PRAGMA General Assembly: Qurterly meeting 
- Pragma General Assembly Value Proposition 1: Open Source Mentoship 
- PRAGMA Phase 2: Onboarding Steps 
- PRAGMA General Assembly Value Prop: Ideas into Goals 
- PRAGMA Collaboration with Intersect OSC 


## Meeting notes

- PRAGMA Board Meeting Date: Review possible conflicts for the next meeting dates.
  The decision was made to change meeting day to Wednesay and the following meeting  will be held on Wednesday September 10th, at the same time as previoulsy. 


- PRAGMA Probs Partner: clean up recommendation (update from CF).
  The Clean up team at CF have offered to assist with clean-up work. The requirement is that the scope must be clearly defined before engagement. The CF legal to prepare a short memo specifying the scope and requirements. 

- PRAGMA PRINS Trademark: watching services recommendation.
  A decision from the General assembly is required on whether to proceed with the recommended watching services. Current resources are limited, restricting our ability to conduct in-depth research and monitoring. There is a proposed uideline to allow maximum of one project per founding member (total 5 projects). An option is to submit a treasury withdrawwal propisal to cover the costs of monitoring services. 

- PRAGMA Administrative Board: Quarterly report.
  Opportunity to open new projects under the Administrative board. Proposals to increase payments in alignment with responsibilities and workload. Potential representation at Cardano Summit 2025 and Tech4Impact events as part of outreach/visibility 


- PRAGMA General Assembly: Qurterly General Assembly meeting is scheduled; agenda to be developed. 

- Pragma General Assembly Value Proposition 1:
  Open Source Mentoship. Potential to frame mentorship as a long-term community benefit. There is a need for alignment with the onboarding (See Phase 2). Proposed guideline is to create a working group to propose concrete mentorship program outline for the GA to review. 


- PRAGMA Phase 2: Onboarding Steps. Phase 2 should focus on value-add initiatives.
  Open source mentorships to be integrated into onboarding and a new committee to be created within PRAGMA with clear governance and accountability and will consist of 1-2 representatives from PRAGMA and additional community members. This committee shall be open, and inclusive but might require skin in the game (active contribution) from members. Draft Onboarding framework and committee rules by next meeting 

- PRAGMA General Assembly Value Prop: Ideas into Goals.
  GA's indentified value propisitions should now be formalized into specific, measurable goals. Each GA value proposition to be reviewd and transalted into at least 2-3 actionable goals that will be presented for GA approval. 

- PRAGMA Collaboration with Intersect OSC. Need to explore opportunities for collaboration with Intersect's Open Source Committee (OSC)

## Follow up notes 

The meeting ended at 17:00 CET
