---
Name: Validity Review 15  
Date: Wednesday, 19 November 2025  
Time: 15:00 UTC  
Location: Online (videocall)  

---

## Present

| Christina Gianelloni <br/> [@musik-c][] | Federico Weill <br/> [@federicoweill][] | Dan Gonzalez <br/> [@gonzalaga][] | Sebastien Bode <br/> [@cleanerm5][] | Marek Mahut <br/> [@mmahut][] | Beatrice Anihiri <br/> [@opacular][] |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|

[@musik-c]: https://github.com/musik-c  
[@federicoweill]: https://github.com/federicoweill  
[@gonzalaga]: https://github.com/gonzalaga  
[@cleanerm5]: https://github.com/cleanerm5  
[@opacular]: https://github.com/opacular  
[@mmahut]: https://github.com/mmahut  

---

## Agenda
PRAGMA Board Meeting

### 1. Open Source Mentorship
- Board will continue to remind MC's and GA (assign if necessary)  
- Board assignments. Aiken: Marek, Amaru: Christina, GA: Jeni
- Need a shared calendar to track these open sessions with shared edit access. (Christina)

### 2. Project Committee
- Christina shared her experience speaking about PRAGMA with the comnmunity at Day 0 in Berlin. 
- High leveled the two open pull requests (project committee charter and role description)
- Board members will review pr's and approve or reply feedback by end of day.
- Next step will be to announce the formation and call for applications. (Christina)

### 3. Maintainer Committees
- Maintainer Committees have not yet submitted their processes to the board, which needs to be completed before onboarding new projects in 2026.  
- A template will be created to make processes clearer and provide a reference point for resolving conflicts or other issues.
- Aiken MC still needs to submit Q3 report.
- Christina to follow-up on both issues.
- Q3 Board report prepared and will be uploaded for review.

### 4. Accounting Updates
- Bank account replacement: Sebastian was a co-approver for payments and needs to be replaced.
- New CF delegate should assume this role; will confirm upon appointment.
- Member dues will need to be discussed in December meeting to allow teams ability to budget their 2026.

### 5. Probst Retainer Confirmation
- Christina met with Kaj, reviewing the retainer and usage. The retainer was spent for non-retainer related tasks (as we were not using the retainer for retainer-related tasks).
- Shared suggestion that Probst send an invoice for non-retainer usage, paying that would open up our retainer again for future needs.
- Probst will coordinate with the Board on a new retainer for 2026-2027 year that more accurately reflects the needs we have at this stage.
- Vote to pay for non-retainer usage:
> Vote Yes: 5 [@mmahut][] [@federicoweill][] [@cleanerm5][] [@musik-c][] [@gonzalaga][] <br>
> Vote No: 0

### 6. Board Member Updates
- Sebastian Bode will be departing CF - and PRAGMA, once a new appointment has been onboarded.
- Board Resolution was approved yesterday, the GA meeting will be called in December.
- Propose to have Q3 review with GA in the same meeting as the request to appoint a new member. Vote to approve:
> Vote Yes: 5 [@mmahut][] [@federicoweill][] [@cleanerm5][] [@musik-c][] [@gonzalaga][] <br>
> Vote No: 0

### 7. Meeting Date
 - Reviewed possible conflicts for upcoming meeting. One conflict.
 - Propose meeting day changed to Wednesday 17th of December, at the same time as previously.
> Vote Yes: 5 [@mmahut][] [@federicoweill][] [@cleanerm5][] [@musik-c][] [@gonzalaga][] <br>
> Vote No: 0

### 8. Outstanding Action Items
 - Add Jeni to GitHub
---
## Follow up notes 
The meeting ended at 15:30 UTC and the following items will be kept for the next meeting's agenda:
- PRAGMA shared calendar for open sessions
- Bank account delegate
- Member dues
