---
Name: Validity Review 14  
Date: Wednesday, 22 October 2025  
Time: 16:00 CET  
Location: Online (videocall)  

---


## Present
| Christina Gianelloni <br/> [@musik-c][] | Daniel Gonzalez <br/> [@gonzalaga][] | Federico Weill <br/> [@federicoweill][] | Jeni Davidson <br/> [][]| Marek Mahut <br/> [@mmahut][] | Sebastien Bode <br/> [@cleanerm5][] | Beatrice Anihiri <br/> [@opacular][] |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|

[@musik-c]: https://github.com/musik-c  
[@federicoweill]: https://github.com/federicoweill  
[@gonzalaga]: https://github.com/gonzalaga  
[@cleanerm5]: https://github.com/cleanerm5  
[@quantumplation]: https://github.com/quantumplation    
[@mmahut]: https://github.com/mmahut  
[@opacular]: https://github.com/opacular  
Jeni PM at Sundae Labs 

### Not Present (voting by proxy)

---

## Agenda adjustment 
Monthly Board meetings will move to the third Wednesday of each month witht the next meeting (being on) 19 November 2025. 

## Open source mentorship review 
- Aiken and Amaru will continue open conding hours. 
- Sessions will be scheduled and promoted in advance with one GA representative every two weeks, with responsibilities split across representatives covering Aiken, GA scheduling, and Amaru.
- A shared PRAGMA Workspace calendar will be created to streamline coordination of mentorship and coding sessions.

## Project Committee (Phase 2) updates

- An initial mock-up and PDR outline were presented.
- The Project Committee will evaluate prospective projects and, according to the PDR, oversee them afterward.
- Expected initial committee size is 3–5 members.
- Given the anticipated workload, compensation may be appropriate. 

### Application Process
- An application will be developed using job-description-style criteria, though the exact information required from applicants remains under discussion, including whether the General Assembly should define these questions.
- A requirement for three contributors was considered, but single-contributor teams may still qualify as “active projects” and will not be excluded from joining PRAGMA as incubating projects.
- A “guide” role may be introduced to support onboarding and act as a point of contact for new projects, and a concise one-page overview of the committee process and expectations will also be created.

### Timeline

- The Project committee’s formation will be announced at the Cardano Summit 2025 and should be established by early December to provide early input on project application requirements.
- Committee roles will have a one-year term.

### Funding

Funding options for potential compensation will be further explored, including:

 - a one-time fee for new projects, and
 - a scholarship option for teams unable to cover costs.

Member dues for 2026 require additional definition.

## General Assembly Value Proposition status

**In progress:**
- Open source mentorships
- Field-tested documentation and workflows

**Not yet started:**
- Assessment tools to evaluate the maturity and ease-of-use of open-source projects
- PRAGMA ecosystem recommendations identifying existing open-source solutions and use cases that support project success

These items will begin once the Project Committee is established.


## Maintainer Committee review

- A standardized set of rules for repository administration is required, including a clear permissions model and defined admin rights across PRAGMA projects; existing post-mortem documentation offers context but is not sufficient.
- An SLA and a standardized request-submission process should be established, with defined response times and a dedicated request channel (e.g., GitHub tickets or another designated pathway).

**Repository Status**
- Some repositories have limited activity and open issues; support needs should be clarified, with additional capacity expected after upcoming releases.
- Outreach to the Open Source Committee and increased project visibility may help attract contributors and identify whether similar challenges exist across other projects.

### Repository Status

- Some repositories have had minimal activity and accumulating open issues.
- Increased activity expected after upcoming releases.
- Clarification needed on required support and possible contributor outreach.

## Documentation location change on GitHub form 
Meeting minutes are currently stored within the validity review section, and it was proposed that they be moved to the Board documents area for consistency. A vote was conducted and approved. 

## Review and decision for Open pull requests

Board members were asked to review:
- Three PRs containing prior meeting minutes
- The Project Committee Charter PR

## Accounting updates

- No updates on accounting related matters. 
- Member dues for 2026 require additional discussion.

## Brand management updates 

No updates on trademark-related matters.

## Legal updates
Follow-up meeting pending to confirm expectations, deliverables, and costs.


---
The meeting ended at 17:00 UTC
