---
Name: Validity Review 18  
Date: Tuesday, 14 January 2026  
Time: 15:00 UTC  
Location: Online (videocall)  
---

## Present

- Christina Gianelloni [@musik-c](https://github.com/musik-c)
- Benjamin Bürgi [@Bebu22](https://github.com/Bebu22)
- Dan Gonzalez [@gonzalaga](https://github.com/gonzalaga)
- Marek Mahut [@mmahut](https://github.com/mmahut)
- Beatrice Anihiri [@opacular](https://github.com/opacular) (secretary)

## Not Present

- Federico Weill [@federicoweill](https://github.com/federicoweill) (voting by proxy)
- Jeni Davidson [@Jenisis](https://github.com/Jenisis)

---

## Agenda

### PRAGMA Board Meeting

### 1. Project Committee Update

The Project Committee has been officially established with five members selected from the community. A meeting was held with the committee where the requirements and mandate outlined in PDR-11 were reviewed. The committee was briefed on the roles for chair and secretary, which they will vote on in their next meeting.

Key points discussed with the committee:
- Projects must be open source
- Currently limited to the Cardano ecosystem, with potential future expansion to other blockchains
- For the first year, projects will not be from founding businesses to ensure diversity and fairness
- Communication will be through a private Discord channel and GitHub for file sharing

The committee expressed interest in understanding PRAGMA's goals to align their decisions accordingly. Their next meeting is scheduled for January 26th.

The board used a rubric for assessing applicants, resulting in near-unanimous agreement on all selections. 

### 2. Maintainer Committees

A partial "ways of working" document was received from Amaru and added to the board's shared drive for review. Board members are asked to review the document and provide feedback asynchronously via Discord. This document will serve as an example and template for other projects.

Discussion was raised regarding registry access and credential management for projects. The board discussed whether PRAGMA should maintain administrative control over project assets such as GitHub repositories and social media accounts.

Considerations included:
- Potential use of Bitwarden for secure credential management (nonprofit/open-source licensing options to be investigated)
- Establishing a policy for administrative access versus delegated access
- Response time expectations for access requests (one-day SLA proposed for non-emergency requests)
- The importance of organizational control to prevent concentration risks

The board expressed preference for maintaining organizational control with the ability to delegate access as needed, rather than relying solely on trust-based arrangements.

### 3. Legal Updates - IP Trademark Opposition

An update was provided on the trademark opposition case. Recommendations from legal counsel were reviewed, with most items being straightforward. The proposed settlement agreement includes PRAGMA not attacking the opposing party's trademarks and establishing a coexistence agreement.

The key discussion point was regarding Class 9 protection category, which covers hardware devices. Legal counsel advised that this category is not essential to PRAGMA's software-focused mission and could be conceded as a goodwill gesture to facilitate settlement of other points.

> **Vote to approve IP settlement concessions including Class 9:**
> - Vote Yes: 5 
>   - Christina Gianelloni [@musik-c](https://github.com/musik-c)
>   - Dan Gonzalez [@gonzalaga](https://github.com/gonzalaga)
>   - Marek Mahut [@mmahut](https://github.com/mmahut)
>   - Benjamin Bürgi [@Bebu22](https://github.com/Bebu22)
>   - Federico Weill [@federicoweill](https://github.com/federicoweill) (via proxy)
> - Vote No: 0

### 4. Legal Updates - Probst Retainer

Discussion was held regarding the ongoing legal support arrangement. Given the new board composition with legal expertise, the board determined that a full retainer may not be necessary. A smaller retainer for specific needs was proposed.

Action items:
- Draft a clear scope of services document for what PRAGMA still needs
- Request a revised quote based on reduced scope
- Document delineation of responsibilities

> **Vote to rely on internal legal support:**
> - Vote Yes: 5
>   - Christina Gianelloni [@musik-c](https://github.com/musik-c)
>   - Dan Gonzalez [@gonzalaga](https://github.com/gonzalaga)
>   - Marek Mahut [@mmahut](https://github.com/mmahut)
>   - Benjamin Bürgi [@Bebu22](https://github.com/Bebu22)
>   - Federico Weill [@federicoweill](https://github.com/federicoweill) (via proxy)
> - Vote No: 0

### 5. Financial/Accounting Updates

The board discussed the financial review process. Key points:
- Bank access transition is in progress
- Membership fees will be needed to cover running costs for the current year
- Management and housekeeping budget may be reduced given changes to legal support
- Trademark/IP protection remains the largest budget item and requires further definition

The board discussed:
- Potential tiered trademark services based on project maturity
- Exploring more cost-effective automated monitoring services
- Future budget needs for conference attendance and events.

A working meeting will be scheduled to develop a detailed budget spreadsheet covering trademark/IP costs, events, accounting, and membership fee proposals.

### 6. Board Member Updates

Board members now have access to PRAGMA Google Workspace for official communications. A shared calendar will be made available for coordination.

Meeting minutes and quarterly reports will be moved to the public board repository on GitHub for improved accessibility.

### 7. Meeting Date

The next board meeting was confirmed for February 11th, 2026.

---

## Follow up notes

The meeting ended at approximately 15:52 UTC and the following items will be kept for the next meeting's agenda:
- Budget spreadsheet review and membership dues proposal
- General Assembly scheduling for Q4 review
- Maintainer Committee "ways of working" document feedback
- Bitwarden investigation results
- Registry access policy development
